## Folder Structure

The folder src contains two folders, lib, which contains the jar files required to connect to the database and to run JUnit tests, and edu/ucalgary/ensf409 which is where all the java files are contained. In the edu/ucalgary/ensf409 folder, there are four java files, three of which are the files for the actual algorithm and one test file called TestFile.java.

## Instructions to Run

To run the program in a regular manner (ie not for JUnit tests), please download the src folder. Then, change directories into the src folder in the terminal being used to run and compile the files. Before running commands in the terminal, please be sure to enter the command *SOURCE nameOfPath/databaseUsed.sql* in the MySQL 8.0 Command Line Client. Next, please type in the command: *javac -cp .;lib/mysql-connector-java-8.0.23 edu/ucalgary/ensf409/OrderForm.java* followed by the command *java -cp .;lib/mysql-connector-java-8.0.23 edu/ucalgary/ensf409/OrderForm*.
After these two commands have been ran, the program should run on the command prompt.

Upon running this program, the user first needs to make a selection of the furniture they would like to order from a displayed dropdown. The user must then enter a integer value that correspond to specific item provided by the dropdown. Once completed, the user must once again enter a integer value corresponding to an item in a new dropdown. This second selection is for the type of the furniture they previously selected. After the user makes selections for the furniture and type they would like to order, the user will then be asked to enter a positive integer to indicate the quantity of product they would like. When each question is prompted, the user must enter a valid Integer value, failure to do so will results in the question being asked again. There are also integer values provided by each question that allow the user to exit the program if necessary. Successfully inputting values for the furniture, type and quantity a user would like to request will result in a text file called “orderForm” being created. This text file would be located in the library folder (lib) within the directory. If an order is able to transpire, the orderForm text file will contain the original request (the furniture, type and quantity requested) along with the ID codes of the items being ordered and the total price of the order. Any requests not able to be processed will be indicated in the orderForm text file as well. If the program cannot connect to the database, a message will be provided to the user.

## Implementation of Code
There are three java files utilized in this project. The first java file is called InputReader, which scans the inputs provided by the user using a Scanner object. Once the input values are scanned they are checked to ensure validity and stored if they are valid. The second java file is called DataBaseManipulator which extends the InputReader class. In DataBaseManipulator, algorithm methods for each category of furniture are utlilized based of the inputs stored in InputReader. The algorithms then provide the program with the cheapest option that fullfills the request and also ensures that all parts are included with the order. If a request is able to be fullfiled, the ID codes from the tables of the requested furniture in the Database are stored in member variables as well as the cheapest price. If a request is unable to be fullfilled DataBaseManipulator creates an "orderForm" text file that states the order could not be placed. The third java file is called OrderForm, which extends the DataBaseManipulator class. In the OrderForm java file the cheapest price, ID codes stored in the member variables of DataBaseManipulator are used to generate the "orderForm" text files created in the OrderForm java file.

***Note: Currently, the url, username, and password for the database are set in the code as: URL: jdbc:mysql://localhost/inventory, USERNAME: scm, PASSWORD: ensf409. If you would like to use a different username, password, or URL, please change the lines of code associated with the three in the main method of the OrderForm.java file (lines 37, 38, and 39).**

## Instructions to Run JUnit Test File
//Fill in Later

